Dear Dr Ross,

Copied below are the comments on your manuscript entitled "The Near and Mid-infrared photometric properties of known redshift z≧5 Quasars", ref. MN-19-2163-MJ, which you submitted to Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society.

Minor revision of your manuscript is requested before it is reconsidered for publication.

You should submit your revised version, together with your response to any comments from the editor and reviewer at https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/mnras. The deadline for this is six months from today.

Enter your Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision". Please ensure that you also respond to any comments from the editor or assistant editor.

IMPORTANT: do not submit your revised manuscript as a new paper!

When submitting your revised manuscript, you should provide details of any changes you make to the original manuscript. Changes to the manuscript should also be highlighted (e.g. in bold or colour), to assist the referee and editor.

We look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.

Regards,

Bella

Bella Lock (in Morgan's absence)

Morgan Hollis
Assistant Editor MNRAS
Royal Astronomical Society

cc: all listed co-authors.

Assistant Editor's Comments:

Please remove the bullet points from your acknowledgements. 

Please ensure that all textual labels in figures are at least as large as the caption text; any smaller and they become too difficult to read.


Scientific Editor's Comments:

I have received a referee report on your paper "The Near and Mid-infrared photometric properties of known redshift z≧5 Quasars". The referee gives a positive assessment of this work, but does have a number of suggestions and comments. I look forward to receiving a revised version of your manuscript addressing these minor corrections.



Reviewer's Comments:
Referee report on submitted paper MN-19-2163-MJ by N. Ross and N. Cross: 

``The Near and Mid-infrared photometric properties of known redshift z>=5
Quasars''

Editorial and Minor comments by Referee:

p. 1: You may want to end the first sentence of the right column of the Intro
with a statement that at z>5, relativistic time dilation also stretches the
photometric variability of the accretion disk as observed. 

p. 2, Fig. 1: Is it useful here to plot both filter sets if they are sufficiently
different? Please provide larger tick-marks for better readability in any case. 

p. 3, Fig. 3, caption or text: You should briefly comment on why the quasar
distribution has this gap in N(z) at z~5.5?. Is this because of the relativity
sensitivity across the filter curves, and/or the onset of complete GP-troughs at
z>5.7? 

p. 4, Fig. 3: Can you plot the small dots somewhat bigger for better visibility
without loss of information?

THROUGHOUT: Several occurrences of ??, i.e., where table or Appendix references
are not properly done in latex. 

p. 5: [My only (minor) scientific comment]: Re: ``although possible, we consider
it highly unlikely there would be more than one MIR source contributing to the
flux of a single UV/optically bright rest-frame quasar. Investigating this in
detail is very interesting but left to a future study. ''

I think it would be better to address now the number of expected contaminating
8--25 micron sources in the apertures used, as it can be done straightforwardly.
E.g., Driver et al. (2016, ApJ, 827, 107; astro-ph/1605.01523) --- the figures
you need for this estimate are actually best given as Fig. A4, A5 on the astro-ph
version. The redshift distribution of the sampled 8--25 micron foreground objects
is narrow enough and their K-corrections advantageous enough, that the objects
counts sharply turnover for AB(W3, W4) > 20--18 mag (left panels), and as a
consequence the normalized differential counts (right panels) --- especially in
W4 --- have most of their EBL energy emerging at AB~18--20 mag. As a consequence,
the relative number or probability of contaminating objects at AB>20 mag inside
your apertures should be rather small. A point worth mentioning, as it helps your
case. 

p. 6 Table 3: Should mention that the number of significant digits listed here
for the YJHK W1--W4 mags is not always warranted, but needed to verify the small
VIRCAM-WFCAM offsets in Table 5, This table is a very useful check of your global
photometric zeropoints.

p. 7, very end of 3.1.1: Quote the (effective) VSA and SDSS quasar IR observing
epochs here, in case these clearly discrepant magnitudes are due to variability. 

p. 8 Fig 5: Make the z=0--3 quasar cloud a little lighter grey, so that the
z=5--6.5 quasar cloud is better visible.

p. 9 top left: = -0.458 : All minus signs in latex should be coded up as --
(double hyphen), also in the tables, to appear as minus sign. 

p. 10 Fig 8: Enlarge all axes label for better readability.

THROUGHOUT: signal-to-noise should always be listed as a ratio: signal-to-noise
ratio or SNR.

With these changes, this paper can go straight to press.
